README.md, before:

# 🏗 Scaffold-ETH - 🎟 Hashlips Simple NFT Example
> Build, mint unique nfts, and send around your own ERC721 Collection!

# 🏃‍♀️ Quick Start
Required: [Node](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/) plus [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) and [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)


All hashlips code in these repos was created and explained by HashLips on the main YouTube channel.

To find out more please visit:

[📺 YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1LV4_VQGBJHTJjEWUmy8nA)

[👄 Discord](https://discord.com/invite/qh6MWhMJDN)

[💬 Telegram](https://t.me/hashlipsnft)

[🐦 Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashlipsnft)

[ℹ️ Website](https://hashlips.online/HashLips)

# HashLips Art Engine 🔥

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/banner.png)

Create generative art by using the canvas api and node js. Before you use the generation engine, make sure you have node.js(v10.18.0) installed.

## Installation 🛠️

```
git clone https://github.com/blahkheart/scaffold-eth.git hashlips-simple-nft
```
```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
git checkout hashlips-simple-nft
yarn install
yarn start
```

> in a second terminal window, start your 📱 frontend:

```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
yarn chain
```

> in a third terminal window, 🛰 deploy your contract:

```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
yarn deploy --network NETWORK_OF_CHOICE (localhost, kovan, rinkeby, mainnet)

```

📱 Open http://localhost:3000 to see the app

> ✏️ Edit the mint script mint.js in packages/hardhat/scripts and update the owner to your frontend address (wallet address in the top right or localhost:3000).

```
TIP: Remeber to go to Debug contracts tab on the frontend and 'Reveal' your collectibles to be able to view your NFTs when you mint,
else the 'NotRevealedURI' is set as default.

```

## Hashlip art engine Usage ℹ️

Create your different layers as folders in the 'layers' directory, and add all the layer assets in these directories. You can name the assets anything as long as it has a rarity weight attached in the file name like so: `example element#70.png`. You can optionally change the delimiter `#` to anything you would like to use in the variable `rarityDelimiter` in the `src/config.js` file.

Once you have all your layers, go into `src/config.js` and update the `layerConfigurations` objects `layersOrder` array to be your layer folders name in order of the back layer to the front layer.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear, so your `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 100,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

The `name` of each layer object represents the name of the folder (in `/layers/`) that the images reside in.

Optionally you can now add multiple different `layerConfigurations` to your collection. Each configuration can be unique and have different layer orders, use the same layers or introduce new ones. This gives the artist flexibility when it comes to fine tuning their collections to their needs.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear and you want to create a new race or just simple re-order the layers or even introduce new layers, then you're `layerConfigurations` and `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    // Creates up to 50 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 50,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
  {
    // Creates an additional 100 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 150,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
      { name: "AlienHeadwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Update your `format` size, ie the outputted image size, and the `growEditionSizeTo` on each `layerConfigurations` object, which is the amount of variation outputted.

You can mix up the `layerConfigurations` order on how the images are saved by setting the variable `shuffleLayerConfigurations` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default and will save all images in numerical order.

If you want to have logs to debug and see what is happening when you generate images you can set the variable `debugLogs` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default, so you will only see general logs.

If you want to play around with different blending modes, you can add a `blend: MODE.colorBurn` field to the layersOrder `options` object.

If you need a layers to have a different opacity then you can add the `opacity: 0.7` field to the layersOrder `options` object as well.

If you want to have a layer _ignored_ in the DNA uniqueness check, you can set `bypassDNA: true` in the `options` object. This has the effect of making sure the rest of the traits are unique while not considering the `Background` Layers as traits, for example. The layers _are_ included in the final image.

To use a different metadata attribute name you can add the `displayName: "Awesome Eye Color"` to the `options` object. All options are optional and can be addes on the same layer if you want to.

Here is an example on how you can play around with both filter fields:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 5,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" , {
        options: {
          bypassDNA: false;
        }
      }},
      { name: "Eyeball" },
      {
        name: "Eye color",
        options: {
          blend: MODE.destinationIn,
          opacity: 0.2,
          displayName: "Awesome Eye Color",
        },
      },
      { name: "Iris" },
      { name: "Shine" },
      { name: "Bottom lid", options: { blend: MODE.overlay, opacity: 0.7 } },
      { name: "Top lid" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Here is a list of the different blending modes that you can optionally use.

```js
const MODE = {
  sourceOver: "source-over",
  sourceIn: "source-in",
  sourceOut: "source-out",
  sourceAtop: "source-out",
  destinationOver: "destination-over",
  destinationIn: "destination-in",
  destinationOut: "destination-out",
  destinationAtop: "destination-atop",
  lighter: "lighter",
  copy: "copy",
  xor: "xor",
  multiply: "multiply",
  screen: "screen",
  overlay: "overlay",
  darken: "darken",
  lighten: "lighten",
  colorDodge: "color-dodge",
  colorBurn: "color-burn",
  hardLight: "hard-light",
  softLight: "soft-light",
  difference: "difference",
  exclusion: "exclusion",
  hue: "hue",
  saturation: "saturation",
  color: "color",
  luminosity: "luminosity",
};
```

When you are ready, run the following command and your outputted art will be in the `src/output/images` directory and the json in the `output/json` directory:
 
cd to ./react-app

```sh
npm run build
```

or

```sh
node index.js
```

The program will output all the images in the `output/images` directory along with the metadata files in the `output/json` directory. Each collection will have a `_metadata.json` file that consists of all the metadata in the collection inside the `output/json` directory. The `output/json` folder also will contain all the single json files that represent each image file. The single json file of a image will look something like this:

```json
{
  "dna": "d956cdf4e460508b5ff90c21974124f68d6edc34",
  "name": "#1",
  "description": "This is the description of your NFT project",
  "image": "https://hashlips/nft/1.png",
  "edition": 1,
  "date": 1731990799975,
  "attributes": [
    { "trait_type": "Background", "value": "Black" },
    { "trait_type": "Eyeball", "value": "Red" },
    { "trait_type": "Eye color", "value": "Yellow" },
    { "trait_type": "Iris", "value": "Small" },
    { "trait_type": "Shine", "value": "Shapes" },
    { "trait_type": "Bottom lid", "value": "Low" },
    { "trait_type": "Top lid", "value": "Middle" }
  ],
  "compiler": "HashLips Art Engine"
}
```

You can also add extra metadata to each metadata file by adding your extra items, (key: value) pairs to the `extraMetadata` object variable in the `config.js` file.

```js
const extraMetadata = {
  creator: "Daniel Eugene Botha",
};
```

If you don't need extra metadata, simply leave the object empty. It is empty by default.

```js
const extraMetadata = {};
```

That's it, you're done.

## Utils

### Updating baseUri for IPFS and description

You might possibly want to update the baseUri and description after you have ran your collection. To update the baseUri and description simply run:

```sh
npm run update_info
```

### Generate a preview image

Create a preview image collage of your collection, run:

```sh
npm run preview
```

### Generate pixelated images from collection

In order to convert images into pixelated images you would need a list of images that you want to convert. So run the generator first.

Then simply run this command:

```sh
npm run pixelate
```

All your images will be outputted in the `/build/pixel_images` directory.
If you want to change the ratio of the pixelation then you can update the ratio property on the `pixelFormat` object in the `src/config.js` file. The lower the number on the left, the more pixelated the image will be.

```js
const pixelFormat = {
  ratio: 5 / 128,
};
```

### Generate GIF images from collection

In order to export gifs based on the layers created, you just need to set the export on the `gif` object in the `src/config.js` file to `true`. You can also play around with the `repeat`, `quality` and the `delay` of the exported gif.

Setting the `repeat: -1` will produce a one time render and `repeat: 0` will loop forever.

```js
const gif = {
  export: true,
  repeat: 0,
  quality: 100,
  delay: 500,
};
```

### Printing rarity data (Experimental feature)

To see the percentages of each attribute across your collection, run:

```sh
npm run rarity
```

The output will look something like this:

```sh
Trait type: Top lid
{
  trait: 'High',
  chance: '30',
  occurrence: '3 in 20 editions (15.00 %)'
}
{
  trait: 'Low',
  chance: '20',
  occurrence: '3 in 20 editions (15.00 %)'
}
{
  trait: 'Middle',
  chance: '50',
  occurrence: '14 in 20 editions (70.00 %)'
}
```
That's all for the hashlips art engine
Hope you create some awesome artworks with this code 👄

```
Extras

👛 Open an incognito window and navigate to http://localhost:3000 (You'll notice it has a new wallet address).

⛽️ Grab some gas for each account using the faucet:

![nft4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387005-55b34200-dcb3-11eb-8565-1ee40b5634ad.png)

🎟 Send an NFT to the incognito window address:

![nft5](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387008-58ae3280-dcb3-11eb-920d-07b6118f1ab2.png)

🕵🏻‍♂️ Inspect the `Debug Contracts` tab to figure out what address is the `owner` of `YourCollectible`?

💼 Edit your deployment script `deploy.js` in `packages/hardhat/scripts`

🔏 Edit your smart contract `YourCollectible.sol` in `packages/hardhat/contracts`

📝 Edit your frontend `App.jsx` in `packages/react-app/src`

🔑 Create wallet links to your app with `yarn wallet` and `yarn fundedwallet`

⬇️ Installing a new package to your frontend? You need to `cd packages/react-app` and then `yarn add PACKAGE`

# 📡 Deploy NFT smart contract!

🛰 Ready to deploy to a testnet?
> Change the `defaultNetwork` in `packages/hardhat/hardhat.config.js`

![nft6](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387061-7a0f1e80-dcb3-11eb-9f4c-19229f43adec.png)

🔐 Generate a deploy account with `yarn generate`

![nft7](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387064-7d0a0f00-dcb3-11eb-9d0c-195f93547fb9.png)

👛 View your deployer address using `yarn account` (You'll need to fund this account. Hint: use an instant wallet to fund your account via QR code)

![nft8](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387068-8004ff80-dcb3-11eb-9d0f-43fba2b3b791.png)

👨‍🎤 Deploy your NFT smart contract:

Make sure your target network is present in the hardhat networks config, then either update the default network in `hardhat.config.js` to your network of choice or run:

```
yarn deploy --network NETWORK_OF_CHOICE
```
> ✏️ Edit your frontend `App.jsx` in `packages/react-app/src` to change the `targetNetwork` to wherever you deployed your contract:

![nft9](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387095-9743ed00-dcb3-11eb-8ea5-afc25d7fef80.png)

You should see the correct network in the frontend:

![nft10](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387099-9a3edd80-dcb3-11eb-9a57-54a7d370589a.png)

🎫 Ready to mint a batch of NFTs for reals?
```
yarn mint
```
Once verified, they will then be available to view on Tenderly!

![nft11](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387132-b04c9e00-dcb3-11eb-95d1-03b8c272e52f.png)

# ⚔️ Side Quests
## 🐟 Open Sea
> Add your contract to OpenSea ( create -> submit NFTs -> "or add an existing contract" )

(It can take a while before they show up, but here is an example:)
https://testnets.opensea.io/assets/0xc2839329166d3d004aaedb94dde4173651babccf/1
## 🔍 Etherscan Contract Verification
> run yarn flatten > flat.txt (You will need to clean up extra junk at the top and bottom of flat.txt. Sorry, rookie stuff here.)

> copy the contents of flat.txt to the block explorer and select compiler v0.6.7 and Yes to Optimization (200 runs if anyone asks)

![nft12](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387153-c8bcb880-dcb3-11eb-8191-e53f87129b88.png)

## 🔶 Infura
> You will need to get a key from infura.io and paste it into constants.js in packages/react-app/src:

![nft13](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387174-d83c0180-dcb3-11eb-989e-d58ba15d26db.png)

# 🛳 Ship the app!
> ⚙️ build and upload your frontend and share the url with your friends...

```
# build it:

yarn build

# upload it:

yarn surge

yarn s3

yarn ipfs
```
![nft14](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387203-fe61a180-dcb3-11eb-8d68-82a76a514e43.png)

👩‍❤️‍👨 Share your public url with a friend and ask them for their address to send them a collectible :)

![nft15](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387205-00c3fb80-dcb4-11eb-9e2f-29585e323037.gif)

------------

# 🔭 Learning Solidity

📕 Read the docs: https://docs.soliditylang.org

📚 Go through each topic from [solidity by example](https://solidity-by-example.org) editing `YourContract.sol` in **🏗 scaffold-eth**

- [Primitive Data Types](https://solidity-by-example.org/primitives/)
- [Mappings](https://solidity-by-example.org/mapping/)
- [Structs](https://solidity-by-example.org/structs/)
- [Modifiers](https://solidity-by-example.org/function-modifier/)
- [Events](https://solidity-by-example.org/events/)
- [Inheritance](https://solidity-by-example.org/inheritance/)
- [Payable](https://solidity-by-example.org/payable/)
- [Fallback](https://solidity-by-example.org/fallback/)

📧 Learn the [Solidity globals and units](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.6.6/units-and-global-variables.html)

# 🛠 Buidl

Check out all the [active branches](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/branches/active), [open issues](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/issues), and join/fund the 🏰 [BuidlGuidl](https://BuidlGuidl.com)!


 - 🚤  [Follow the full Ethereum Speed Run](https://medium.com/@austin_48503/%EF%B8%8Fethereum-dev-speed-run-bd72bcba6a4c)


 - 🎟  [Create your first NFT](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/simple-nft-example)
 - 🥩  [Build a staking smart contract](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/challenge-1-decentralized-staking)
 - 🏵  [Deploy a token and vendor](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/challenge-2-token-vendor)
 - 🎫  [Extend the NFT example to make a "buyer mints" marketplace](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/buyer-mints-nft)
 - 🎲  [Learn about commit/reveal](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/commit-reveal-with-frontend)
 - ✍️  [Learn how ecrecover works](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/signature-recover)
 - 👩‍👩‍👧‍👧  [Build a multi-sig that uses off-chain signatures](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/meta-multi-sig)
 - ⏳  [Extend the multi-sig to stream ETH](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/streaming-meta-multi-sig)
 - ⚖️  [Learn how a simple DEX works](https://medium.com/@austin_48503/%EF%B8%8F-minimum-viable-exchange-d84f30bd0c90)
 - 🦍  [Ape into learning!](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/aave-ape)

# 💬 Support Chat

Join the telegram [support chat 💬](https://t.me/joinchat/KByvmRe5wkR-8F_zz6AjpA) to ask questions and find others building with 🏗 scaffold-eth!

---

🙏 Please check out our [Gitcoin grant](https://gitcoin.co/grants/2851/scaffold-eth) too!

Commit message:

added contract verification to README.md

README.md, after:

# 🏗 Scaffold-ETH - 🎟 Hashlips Simple NFT Example
> Build, mint unique nfts, and send around your own ERC721 Collection!

# 🏃‍♀️ Quick Start
Required: [Node](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v12.x/) plus [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) and [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)


All hashlips code in these repos was created and explained by HashLips on the main YouTube channel.

To find out more please visit:

[📺 YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC1LV4_VQGBJHTJjEWUmy8nA)

[👄 Discord](https://discord.com/invite/qh6MWhMJDN)

[💬 Telegram](https://t.me/hashlipsnft)

[🐦 Twitter](https://twitter.com/hashlipsnft)

[ℹ️ Website](https://hashlips.online/HashLips)

# HashLips Art Engine 🔥

![](https://github.com/HashLips/hashlips_art_engine/blob/main/banner.png)

Create generative art by using the canvas api and node js. Before you use the generation engine, make sure you have node.js(v10.18.0) installed.

## Installation 🛠️

```
git clone https://github.com/blahkheart/scaffold-eth.git hashlips-simple-nft
```
```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
git checkout hashlips-simple-nft
yarn install
yarn start
```

> in a second terminal window, start your 📱 frontend:

```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
yarn chain
```

> in a third terminal window, 🛰 deploy your contract:

```
cd hashlips-simple-nft
yarn deploy --network NETWORK_OF_CHOICE (localhost, kovan, rinkeby, mainnet)

```

📱 Open http://localhost:3000 to see the app

> ✏️ Edit the mint script mint.js in packages/hardhat/scripts and update the owner to your frontend address (wallet address in the top right or localhost:3000).

```
TIP: Remeber to go to Debug contracts tab on the frontend and 'Reveal' your collectibles to be able to view your NFTs when you mint,
else the 'NotRevealedURI' is set as default.

```

## Hashlip art engine Usage ℹ️

Create your different layers as folders in the 'layers' directory, and add all the layer assets in these directories. You can name the assets anything as long as it has a rarity weight attached in the file name like so: `example element#70.png`. You can optionally change the delimiter `#` to anything you would like to use in the variable `rarityDelimiter` in the `src/config.js` file.

Once you have all your layers, go into `src/config.js` and update the `layerConfigurations` objects `layersOrder` array to be your layer folders name in order of the back layer to the front layer.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear, so your `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 100,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

The `name` of each layer object represents the name of the folder (in `/layers/`) that the images reside in.

Optionally you can now add multiple different `layerConfigurations` to your collection. Each configuration can be unique and have different layer orders, use the same layers or introduce new ones. This gives the artist flexibility when it comes to fine tuning their collections to their needs.

_Example:_ If you were creating a portrait design, you might have a background, then a head, a mouth, eyes, eyewear, and then headwear and you want to create a new race or just simple re-order the layers or even introduce new layers, then you're `layerConfigurations` and `layersOrder` would look something like this:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    // Creates up to 50 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 50,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
    ],
  },
  {
    // Creates an additional 100 artworks
    growEditionSizeTo: 150,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" },
      { name: "Head" },
      { name: "Eyes" },
      { name: "Mouth" },
      { name: "Eyeswear" },
      { name: "Headwear" },
      { name: "AlienHeadwear" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Update your `format` size, ie the outputted image size, and the `growEditionSizeTo` on each `layerConfigurations` object, which is the amount of variation outputted.

You can mix up the `layerConfigurations` order on how the images are saved by setting the variable `shuffleLayerConfigurations` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default and will save all images in numerical order.

If you want to have logs to debug and see what is happening when you generate images you can set the variable `debugLogs` in the `config.js` file to true. It is false by default, so you will only see general logs.

If you want to play around with different blending modes, you can add a `blend: MODE.colorBurn` field to the layersOrder `options` object.

If you need a layers to have a different opacity then you can add the `opacity: 0.7` field to the layersOrder `options` object as well.

If you want to have a layer _ignored_ in the DNA uniqueness check, you can set `bypassDNA: true` in the `options` object. This has the effect of making sure the rest of the traits are unique while not considering the `Background` Layers as traits, for example. The layers _are_ included in the final image.

To use a different metadata attribute name you can add the `displayName: "Awesome Eye Color"` to the `options` object. All options are optional and can be addes on the same layer if you want to.

Here is an example on how you can play around with both filter fields:

```js
const layerConfigurations = [
  {
    growEditionSizeTo: 5,
    layersOrder: [
      { name: "Background" , {
        options: {
          bypassDNA: false;
        }
      }},
      { name: "Eyeball" },
      {
        name: "Eye color",
        options: {
          blend: MODE.destinationIn,
          opacity: 0.2,
          displayName: "Awesome Eye Color",
        },
      },
      { name: "Iris" },
      { name: "Shine" },
      { name: "Bottom lid", options: { blend: MODE.overlay, opacity: 0.7 } },
      { name: "Top lid" },
    ],
  },
];
```

Here is a list of the different blending modes that you can optionally use.

```js
const MODE = {
  sourceOver: "source-over",
  sourceIn: "source-in",
  sourceOut: "source-out",
  sourceAtop: "source-out",
  destinationOver: "destination-over",
  destinationIn: "destination-in",
  destinationOut: "destination-out",
  destinationAtop: "destination-atop",
  lighter: "lighter",
  copy: "copy",
  xor: "xor",
  multiply: "multiply",
  screen: "screen",
  overlay: "overlay",
  darken: "darken",
  lighten: "lighten",
  colorDodge: "color-dodge",
  colorBurn: "color-burn",
  hardLight: "hard-light",
  softLight: "soft-light",
  difference: "difference",
  exclusion: "exclusion",
  hue: "hue",
  saturation: "saturation",
  color: "color",
  luminosity: "luminosity",
};
```

When you are ready, run the following command and your outputted art will be in the `src/output/images` directory and the json in the `output/json` directory:
 
cd to ./react-app

```sh
npm run generate
```

or

```sh
node index.js
```

The program will output all the images in the `output/images` directory along with the metadata files in the `output/json` directory. Each collection will have a `_metadata.json` file that consists of all the metadata in the collection inside the `output/json` directory. The `output/json` folder also will contain all the single json files that represent each image file. The single json file of a image will look something like this:

```json
{
  "dna": "d956cdf4e460508b5ff90c21974124f68d6edc34",
  "name": "#1",
  "description": "This is the description of your NFT project",
  "image": "https://hashlips/nft/1.png",
  "edition": 1,
  "date": 1731990799975,
  "attributes": [
    { "trait_type": "Background", "value": "Black" },
    { "trait_type": "Eyeball", "value": "Red" },
    { "trait_type": "Eye color", "value": "Yellow" },
    { "trait_type": "Iris", "value": "Small" },
    { "trait_type": "Shine", "value": "Shapes" },
    { "trait_type": "Bottom lid", "value": "Low" },
    { "trait_type": "Top lid", "value": "Middle" }
  ],
  "compiler": "HashLips Art Engine"
}
```

You can also add extra metadata to each metadata file by adding your extra items, (key: value) pairs to the `extraMetadata` object variable in the `config.js` file.

```js
const extraMetadata = {
  creator: "Daniel Eugene Botha",
};
```

If you don't need extra metadata, simply leave the object empty. It is empty by default.

```js
const extraMetadata = {};
```

That's it, you're done.

## Utils

### Updating baseUri for IPFS and description

You might possibly want to update the baseUri and description after you have ran your collection. To update the baseUri and description simply run:

```sh
npm run update_info
```

### Generate a preview image

Create a preview image collage of your collection, run:

```sh
npm run preview
```

### Generate pixelated images from collection

In order to convert images into pixelated images you would need a list of images that you want to convert. So run the generator first.

Then simply run this command:

```sh
npm run pixelate
```

All your images will be outputted in the `/build/pixel_images` directory.
If you want to change the ratio of the pixelation then you can update the ratio property on the `pixelFormat` object in the `src/config.js` file. The lower the number on the left, the more pixelated the image will be.

```js
const pixelFormat = {
  ratio: 5 / 128,
};
```

### Generate GIF images from collection

In order to export gifs based on the layers created, you just need to set the export on the `gif` object in the `src/config.js` file to `true`. You can also play around with the `repeat`, `quality` and the `delay` of the exported gif.

Setting the `repeat: -1` will produce a one time render and `repeat: 0` will loop forever.

```js
const gif = {
  export: true,
  repeat: 0,
  quality: 100,
  delay: 500,
};
```

### Printing rarity data (Experimental feature)

To see the percentages of each attribute across your collection, run:

```sh
npm run rarity
```

The output will look something like this:

```sh
Trait type: Top lid
{
  trait: 'High',
  chance: '30',
  occurrence: '3 in 20 editions (15.00 %)'
}
{
  trait: 'Low',
  chance: '20',
  occurrence: '3 in 20 editions (15.00 %)'
}
{
  trait: 'Middle',
  chance: '50',
  occurrence: '14 in 20 editions (70.00 %)'
}
```
That's all for the hashlips art engine
Hope you create some awesome artworks with this code 👄


## Extras

👛 Open an incognito window and navigate to http://localhost:3000 (You'll notice it has a new wallet address).

⛽️ Grab some gas for each account using the faucet:

![nft4](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387005-55b34200-dcb3-11eb-8565-1ee40b5634ad.png)

🎟 Send an NFT to the incognito window address:

![nft5](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387008-58ae3280-dcb3-11eb-920d-07b6118f1ab2.png)

🕵🏻‍♂️ Inspect the `Debug Contracts` tab to figure out what address is the `owner` of `YourCollectible`?

💼 Edit your deployment script `deploy.js` in `packages/hardhat/scripts`

🔏 Edit your smart contract `YourCollectible.sol` in `packages/hardhat/contracts`

📝 Edit your frontend `App.jsx` in `packages/react-app/src`

🔑 Create wallet links to your app with `yarn wallet` and `yarn fundedwallet`

⬇️ Installing a new package to your frontend? You need to `cd packages/react-app` and then `yarn add PACKAGE`

# 📡 Deploy NFT smart contract!

🛰 Ready to deploy to a testnet?
> Change the `defaultNetwork` in `packages/hardhat/hardhat.config.js`

![nft6](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387061-7a0f1e80-dcb3-11eb-9f4c-19229f43adec.png)

🔐 Generate a deploy account with `yarn generate`

![nft7](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387064-7d0a0f00-dcb3-11eb-9d0c-195f93547fb9.png)

👛 View your deployer address using `yarn account` (You'll need to fund this account. Hint: use an instant wallet to fund your account via QR code)

![nft8](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387068-8004ff80-dcb3-11eb-9d0f-43fba2b3b791.png)

👨‍🎤 Deploy your NFT smart contract:

Make sure your target network is present in the hardhat networks config, then either update the default network in `hardhat.config.js` to your network of choice or run:

```
yarn deploy --network NETWORK_OF_CHOICE
```
> ✏️ Edit your frontend `App.jsx` in `packages/react-app/src` to change the `targetNetwork` to wherever you deployed your contract:

![nft9](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387095-9743ed00-dcb3-11eb-8ea5-afc25d7fef80.png)

You should see the correct network in the frontend:

![nft10](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387099-9a3edd80-dcb3-11eb-9a57-54a7d370589a.png)

🎫 Ready to mint a batch of NFTs for reals?
```
yarn mint
```
Once verified, they will then be available to view on Tenderly!

![nft11](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387132-b04c9e00-dcb3-11eb-95d1-03b8c272e52f.png)

# ⚔️ Side Quests
## 🐟 Open Sea
> Add your contract to OpenSea ( create -> submit NFTs -> "or add an existing contract" )

(It can take a while before they show up, but here is an example:)
https://testnets.opensea.io/assets/0xc2839329166d3d004aaedb94dde4173651babccf/1
## 🔍 Etherscan Contract Verification
> run yarn flatten > flat.txt (You will need to clean up extra junk at the top and bottom of flat.txt. Sorry, rookie stuff here.)

> copy the contents of flat.txt to the block explorer and select compiler v0.6.7 and Yes to Optimization (200 runs if anyone asks)

![nft12](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387153-c8bcb880-dcb3-11eb-8191-e53f87129b88.png)

## 🔶 Infura
> You will need to get a key from infura.io and paste it into constants.js in packages/react-app/src:

![nft13](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387174-d83c0180-dcb3-11eb-989e-d58ba15d26db.png)

# 🛳 Ship the app!
> ⚙️ build and upload your frontend and share the url with your friends...

```
# build it:

yarn build

# upload it:

yarn surge

yarn s3

yarn ipfs
```
![nft14](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387203-fe61a180-dcb3-11eb-8d68-82a76a514e43.png)

👩‍❤️‍👨 Share your public url with a friend and ask them for their address to send them a collectible :)

![nft15](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/526558/124387205-00c3fb80-dcb4-11eb-9e2f-29585e323037.gif)

### 📜 Contract Verification

Update the `api-key` in `packages/hardhat/package.json`. You can get your key [here](https://etherscan.io/myapikey).
> Now you are ready to run the `yarn verify --network your_network` command to verify your contracts on etherscan 🛰

------------

# 🔭 Learning Solidity

📕 Read the docs: https://docs.soliditylang.org

📚 Go through each topic from [solidity by example](https://solidity-by-example.org) editing `YourContract.sol` in **🏗 scaffold-eth**

- [Primitive Data Types](https://solidity-by-example.org/primitives/)
- [Mappings](https://solidity-by-example.org/mapping/)
- [Structs](https://solidity-by-example.org/structs/)
- [Modifiers](https://solidity-by-example.org/function-modifier/)
- [Events](https://solidity-by-example.org/events/)
- [Inheritance](https://solidity-by-example.org/inheritance/)
- [Payable](https://solidity-by-example.org/payable/)
- [Fallback](https://solidity-by-example.org/fallback/)

📧 Learn the [Solidity globals and units](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.6.6/units-and-global-variables.html)

# 🛠 Buidl

Check out all the [active branches](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/branches/active), [open issues](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/issues), and join/fund the 🏰 [BuidlGuidl](https://BuidlGuidl.com)!


 - 🚤  [Follow the full Ethereum Speed Run](https://medium.com/@austin_48503/%EF%B8%8Fethereum-dev-speed-run-bd72bcba6a4c)


 - 🎟  [Create your first NFT](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/simple-nft-example)
 - 🥩  [Build a staking smart contract](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/challenge-1-decentralized-staking)
 - 🏵  [Deploy a token and vendor](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/challenge-2-token-vendor)
 - 🎫  [Extend the NFT example to make a "buyer mints" marketplace](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/buyer-mints-nft)
 - 🎲  [Learn about commit/reveal](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/commit-reveal-with-frontend)
 - ✍️  [Learn how ecrecover works](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/signature-recover)
 - 👩‍👩‍👧‍👧  [Build a multi-sig that uses off-chain signatures](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/meta-multi-sig)
 - ⏳  [Extend the multi-sig to stream ETH](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/streaming-meta-multi-sig)
 - ⚖️  [Learn how a simple DEX works](https://medium.com/@austin_48503/%EF%B8%8F-minimum-viable-exchange-d84f30bd0c90)
 - 🦍  [Ape into learning!](https://github.com/austintgriffith/scaffold-eth/tree/aave-ape)

# 💬 Support Chat

Join the telegram [support chat 💬](https://t.me/joinchat/KByvmRe5wkR-8F_zz6AjpA) to ask questions and find others building with 🏗 scaffold-eth!

---

🙏 Please check out our [Gitcoin grant](https://gitcoin.co/grants/2851/scaffold-eth) too!
